What provides objects with the ability to hide their internal characteristics and behavior?
encapsulation
How do you call the ability of programming languages to present the same interface for differing underlying data types?
polymorphism
What provides an object with the ability to acquire the fields and methods of another class, called super class?
inheritance
Process of separating ideas from specific instances and thus, develop classes in terms of their own functionality, instead of their implementation details.
abstraction
What is JVM?
java virtual machine
What is JRE?
java runtime environment
What is JDK?
java development kit
A Java source file is compiled into what type of file?
bytecode
What keyword allows a variable/method to accessed, without the instantiation of the class it belongs to?
static
Which keyword prevents thread interference and memory consistency errors?
synchronized
Which keyword allows you to run a block of code, regardless of the result of a try/catch block?
finally
Which keyword allows you to skip a iteration?
continue
Which keyword do you use to make a class use an interface independently of its data type?
implements
Which keyword do you use to make a class inherit form another?
extends
Which keyword makes a variable immutable after its initialization?
final
Which keyword compares an object's class with a specific class?
instanceof
Which keyword is used to initiate an object?
new
What's called a class that encapsulates another class, adding functionality?
wrapper
What type of class is made up of a set of predefined constants?
enum
Which keyword makes a variable available to all classes?
public
Which keyword makes a variable available to classes in the same package or subclasses of its own?
protected
Which keyword makes a variable available only in its own class?
private
Which keyword makes a method stop, producing a value and resuming the code that invoked it?
return
Which keyword tells your program to execute a block of code once when a condition is evaluated to true?
if
Which keyword is used to define a method with no return type?
void
Which keyword executes a block of code as long as its condition is true?
while
Which keyword forces a variable to be written into memory?
volatile
Which keyword is used to define a variable that might initialize an exception?
throws
What do we call the automatic conversion that the Java compiler makes between the primitive types and their corresponding object wrapper classes?
autoboxing
What's called the definition of a subclass's method, so it becomes different from its super class?
override
What's called the definition of a method with the same name but different in parameters?
overload
What method is usually called when you invoke a new object?
constructor
What do we call to an execution of a program?
process
What do we call a single execution sequence within a process?
thread
What do we call when two threads are waiting endlessly for each other to complete?
deadlock
What do we call a collection with no duplicate elements?
set
What do we typically call an ordered collection?
list
What do we call a collection of keys and its respective values?
map
What method allows you to loop over a collection?
iterator
What method from Object class do we use to compare objects?
equals
What method from Object class do you use to produce 32-bit integer?
hashcode
Which container object holds a fixed number of values of a single type?
array
Which interface do you implement to establish an order between two objects?
comparable
What's the name of the program that runs on the JVM and gets rid of objects which are not being used by a Java application anymore?
garbage collector